[Feature] Ray restricted podsecuritystandards for enterprise security and Kubeflow integration (#750)
ray-project/kuberay: docs/guidance/pod-security.md

# Pod Security

Kubernetes defines three different Pod Security Standards, including `privileged`, `baseline`, and `restricted`, to broadly
cover the security spectrum. The `privileged` standard allows users to do known privilege escalations, and thus it is not 
safe enough for security-critical applications.

This document describes how to configure RayCluster YAML file to apply `restricted` Pod security standard. The following 
references can help you understand this document better:

* [Kubernetes - Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted)
* [Kubernetes - Pod Security Admission](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/)
* [Kubernetes - Auditing](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-cluster/audit/)
* [KinD - Auditing](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/auditing/)

# Step 1: Create a KinD cluster
```bash
# Path: ray-operator/config/security

> kind create cluster --config kind-config.yaml --image=kindest/node:v1.24.0

Reviewer: I ran out of memory on my (intel) MacBook -- the worker pod couldn't get scheduled.
Could we add an arg or config parameter that guarantees enough memory?
We should probably also mention that this doesn't work on ARM machines, like M1 books.

Reviewer: Or mention the memory requirement.
Looks like I need to adjust my Docker setup.

Author: Good catch!

Reviewer: Or reduce the memory requests -- do we really need 4GB per Ray pod?

Author: I will try it.

Author: Reduce memory requests.

```
The `kind-config.yaml` enables audit logging with the audit policy defined in `audit-policy.yaml`. The `audit-policy.yaml`
defines an auditing policy to listen to the Pod events in the namespace `pod-security`. With this policy, we can check
whether our Pods violate the policies in `restricted` standard or not.

The feature [Pod Security Admission](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) is firstly 
introduced in Kubernetes v1.22 (alpha) and becomes stable in Kubernetes v1.25. In addition, KubeRay currently supports 

> Kubernetes from v1.19 to v1.24 (not sure about the status of v1.25). Hence, I use **Kubernetes v1.24** in this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes from v1.19 to v1.24. (At the time of writing, we have not tested KubeRay with Kubernetes v1.25). Hence, I use **Kubernetes v1.24** in this step.
```

# Step 2: Check the audit logs
```bash
docker exec kind-control-plane cat /var/log/kubernetes/kube-apiserver-audit.log
```
The log should be empty because the namespace `pod-security` does not exist.

# Step 3: Create the `pod-security` namespace
```bash
kubectl create ns pod-security
kubectl label --overwrite ns pod-security \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn=restricted \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn-version=latest \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/audit=restricted \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/audit-version=latest \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=restricted \
  pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce-version=latest
```
With the `pod-security.kubernetes.io` labels, the built-in Kubernetes Pod security admission controller will apply the 
`restricted` Pod security standard to all Pods in the namespace `pod-security`. The label
`pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=restricted` means that the Pod will be rejected if it violate the policies defined in 
`restricted` security standard. See [Pod Security Admission](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) for more details about the labels.

> # Step 4: Install a KubeRay operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 4: Install the KubeRay operator
```

```bash
# Path: helm-chart/kuberay-operator
helm install -n pod-security kuberay-operator .
```

> # Step 5: Create a RayCluster (Choose either Step5.1 or Step5.2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 5: Create a RayCluster (Choose either Step 5.1 or Step 5.2)
```

> * If you choose Step5.1, no Pod will be created in the namespace `pod-security`.

Reviewer: Sorry, nit, I don't why the space bothers me so much :p
```suggestion
* If you choose Step 5.1, no Pod will be created in the namespace `pod-security`.
```

> * If you choose Step5.2, Pods can be created successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you choose Step 5.2, Pods can be created successfully.
```

## Step 5.1: Create a RayCluster without proper `securityContext` configurations
```bash
# Path: ray-operator/config/samples
kubectl apply -n pod-security -f ray-cluster.complete.yaml

# Wait 20 seconds and check audit logs for the error messages.
docker exec kind-control-plane cat /var/log/kubernetes/kube-apiserver-audit.log

# Example error messagess
# "pods \"raycluster-complete-head-fkbf5\" is forbidden: violates PodSecurity \"restricted:latest\": allowPrivilegeEscalation != false (container \"ray-head\" must set securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation=false) ...
```
No Pod will be created in the namespace `pod-security`, and check audit logs for error messages.

> 

Reviewer: Let's add the instruction to delete the faulty raycluster.

Author: Good idea. I will update it later.

Reviewer: Also, we can add `kubectl get pod -n pod-security` with output showing only the operator.

Author: Updated. https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/750/commits/5e0ff9d98d197ff50deb82c9139ea819b78bb644
